# Schema v2

Schema v2 currently supports the following object types:
* [endpoint_map](#endpoint_map)
* [deployment_client](#deployment_client)
* [deprovision](#deprovision)

## endpoint_map

An endpoint map defines conversions to be run against deployment endpoint URLs returned by Compose.io. An enterprise Compose cluster may be configured to only return an endpoint that requires VPN access even though the deployment itself has a public-facing endpoint, and you can use an endpoint map to translate from one to the other.

### Format
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: endpoint_map
endpoint_map:
  {{.KEY_ONE}}: {{.VALUE_ONE}}
  {{.KEY_TWO}}: {{.VALUE_TWO}}
  ...
```

Restrictions:
* A single key cannot map to multiple values.
* The map will resolve recursively up to 8 times before triggering a panic. I don't have cycle detection working yet and this prevents an infinite loop.

### Example
Given this configuration
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: endpoint_map
endpoint_map:
  cluster-benjdewan-01.compose.direct: haproxy-v1.public.legacy.com
  haproxy-v1.public.legacy.com: endpoint.example.net
```

and this returned connection string for a deployment called `postgres-benjdewan-01`:

```
postgres://admin:PASSWORD@cluster-benjdewan-01.compose.direct:45678/compose
```

The output of `pachelbel` will be:
```yaml
name: postgres-benjdewan-01
type: postgresql
connections:
  - scheme: postgres
    host: endpoint.example.net
    username: admin
    password: PASSWORD
    port: 45678
    path: /compose
```

## deployment_client

A deployment_client object is used to return connection information for a deployment that is managed by another team.

When developing multiple services it is highly likely that some of them will share Compose deployments. For example having an orchestrator service passing jobs to workers using a single Redis queue. In a scenario like this the orchestrator service should own and manage the deployment, and the worker services should not have the ability to modify the deployment configuration during rollout, but the workers still need the connection info to utilize it.

It may help to think of a `deployment_client` as a read-only information request to the Compose API about a deployment that should exist, and if it doesn't an error is thrown because the deployment owner, not the client has to handle creation

NOTE: You cannot specify a deployment object and a deployment_client object with the same name in a single `pachelbel provision` run. Either pachelbel has the ability to create/update a deployment or it doesn't.

### Format
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deployment_client
name: {{.NAME_OF_EXISTING_DEPLOYMENT}}
type: {{.TYPE_OF_EXISTING_DEPLOYMENT}}
```

### Example
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deployment_client
name: postgres-benjdewan-01
type: postgresql
```

## deprovision

A deprovision object is used to deprovision an existing deployment. If the
deployment does not exist the deprovision object is ignored as there is no way
to differentiate between a deployment that was just deprovisioned and one that
never existed, so this behavior is required per pachelbel's idempotency
guarantee.

NOTE: The deployment to be deprovisioned must be unique per provision run. If
a separate deployment or deployment_client object references a deployment of
the same name pachelbel will throw an error because you cannot deprovision
_and_ provision a deployment simultaneously.

### Format
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deprovision
# You must specify at least one of the id or name fields to deprovision a
# deployment. If both are specified `name` is ignored as ID is assumed to
# be more correct.
id: {{.ID_OF_EXISTING_DEPLOYMENT}}
name: {{.NAME_OF_EXISTING_DEPLOYMENT}}

# timeout is the number of seconds to wait for the deprovision to complete.
# This field is optional, and the default timeout is 900 seconds (15 minutes)
timeout: 400
```

### Examples

Deprovision a deployment with id `1234567890987654321`:
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deprovision
id: 1234567890987654321
```

Deprovision a deployment with name `delete-me`:
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deprovision
name: delete-me
```

Deprovision a deployment with id `1234567890987654321` with the name `redis-01`:
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deprovision
id: 1234567890987654321
name: delete-me
```
NOTE: Because the `id` was specified the given `name` was ignored.

Deprovision a deployment named `redis-01` and return immediately:
```yaml
config_version: 2
object_type: deprovision
name: redis-01
timeout: 0
```
